Airship
Fare travel is available from House Lyrandar only to certain locations bearing docking towers.
Getting anywhere else by airship requires chartering the entire ship and its crew. For an additional fee of 200 gp per day, clients chartering directly from House Lyrandar can request an expert pilot to fly the ship (if one is available). Some airships are in private hands, but privateer pilots and crews are harder to come by and might not be as reliable or trustworthy as those of House Lyrandar.
Purchasing your own airship means dealing directly with the gnomes of Zilargo, since House Lyrandar never sells any of the ships of its fl eet. Since airships are a relatively new development on Eberron, it is almost impossible to fi nd one available for private resale, and orders for new airships typically take more than three months to fi ll. The given price does not include a wheel of wind and water, but those are rarely needed on independent ships since they only aid a dragonmark heir.

Fare per mile: 1gp
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: 2sp
Charter Cost per day: 1,000gp
Purchase Cost: 92,000gp
Speed: 20mph
Distance per Day: 480 miles


House Orien Caravan
A slow-moving train of more than a dozen coaches, wagons, and beasts of burden, a House Orien caravan provides security rather than speed. Moving cargo in large shipments lowers the cost of protecting that cargo. Passengers are only allowed to buy fares if no more cargo is left to be loaded, but the rate is cheap

Fare per mile: 1sp
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: 1cp
Charter Cost per day: N/A
Purchase Cost: N/A
Speed: 2mph
Distance per Day: 16 miles


House Orien Coach
While most Orien coaches are chartered for their destination, the coaches that regularly carry the mail have a predetermined route. You can purchase a fare along one of these routes at the given price.
The price for purchasing a coach does not include the cost of the four horses that pull it.

Fare per mile: 1sp
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: 2cp
Charter Cost per day: 20gp
Purchase Cost: 200gp
Speed: 5mph
Distance per Day: 40 miles


Sailing Ship
This is the standard traditional sailing ship, run without benefit of elementals or dragonmark heirs. While House Lyrandar dominates the shipping of valuable commodities, enough independent ships still sail to suit those looking for a discount—or to transport something too dangerous or illegal for Lyrandar to touch. In order to remain competitive with House Lyrandar, standard sailing ships are forced to charge half what they might otherwise charge for fare passengers

Fare per mile: 3cp
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: 2cp
Charter Cost per day: 100gp
Purchase Cost: 10,000gp
Speed: 2mph
Distance per Day: 48 miles


House Lyrandar Sailing Ship
The rates given are for traveling on a standard sailing vessel outfitted with a wheel of wind and water and piloted by a House Lyrandar dragonmark heir. 
House Lyrandar never sells Lyrandar sailing ships as such. The price on Table 1–1 is the cost of a normal sailing ship plus the cost of a wheel of wind and water, but it is up to the hopeful buyer to obtain a wheel (and find a dragonmark heir who can properly use it).

Fare per mile: 5sp
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: 6sp
Charter Cost per day: 300gp
Purchase Cost: 18,000gp
Speed: 6mph
Distance per Day: 144 miles


Soarwood Sailing Ship
A soarwood sailing ship is of normal design but incorporates soarwood into its overall construction. Though still not in the same class as a Lyrandar-helmed vessel, it is lighter and faster than a normal ship of its type.

Fare per mile: 5cp
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: 4cp
Charter Cost per day: 200gp
Purchase Cost: 40,000gp
Speed: 4mph
Distance per Day: 96 miles


Stormship
Almost all stormships are owned by the national navies and are rarely available for private use. Since the only reason to specifi cally require a stormship would be the expectation of battle, should a private owner decide to accept charters, the price would be based entirely on circumstances and the level of danger involved. 
Purchasing an existing stormship is diffi cult, but less so than convincing the workshops of Zilargo to produce what is (to them) an obsolete design.

Fare per mile: N/A
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: N/A
Charter Cost per day: N/A
Purchase Cost: 76,000gp
Speed: 8mph
Distance per Day: 192 miles


Wind Galleon
Standard fare on a passenger wind galleon is only available between established destinations and includes a shared cabin and simple meals for the duration of the journey. Cargo space is sold by weight, but only if shipping to select trading ports. Getting goods or passengers to or from any other location requires that the whole galleon be chartered.
If chartering a wind galleon from House Lyrandar, you can request an expert pilot for an additional fee of 100 gp per day. 

Fare per mile: 3sp
Cargo Rate for 200lb per mile: 2sp
Charter Cost per day: 750gp
Purchase Cost: 64,000gp
Speed: 20mph
Distance per Day: 480 miles