When a water vessel begins to sink, it is almost always a good idea to evacuate as soon as possible. Even if it simply means throwing yourself into the sea, there is always the chance of swimming to shore or being rescued. The elemental airships that have increased in popularity in the last few years, however, do not offer the same option. Indeed, it is highly recommended that you NOT throw yourself overboard, lest you and the ground have an unfortunate meeting some distance below. Instead, consider the following.

If you don’t have access to feather fall or some other similar helpful magic, your fi rst task after crossing the gangplank is to identify all the dragonmarked Lyrandar crew members on board. One might possibly possess an aberrant dragonmark feather fall ability. Buy this crew member many beverages in the reception lounge.

Look for life rings. These soarwood rings are placed strategically along the main deck of better airships, allowing you and three of your fellows to float safely to the ground.

If you can find no life rings and cannot fly under your own power, then we suggest attempting to reverse the crashing of your ship. Remember that airships are naturally buoyant, so that most crashes result from the bound elemental driving the ship into the ground (by accident or, more rarely, from spite). If a rogue elemental can be suppressed or an uncontrolled elemental commanded in some manner, the ship should remain afloat.

In rare instances, significant damage to an airship’s soarwood hull can negate its floating properties. If this is the case, we suggest finding the most structurally protected area aboard the ship and barricading yourself there. It is possible that the ship might collide with the ground at an angle, leaving much of the hull intact. Whatever you do, do NOT wait until the ship has almost crashed into the ground and then leap off. You will strike the ground at the same velocity as the vessel, and will almost certainly be slain.

Without a magical means of surviving the crash, your best hope is to right the ship. In the wheelhouse located at the stern, pull back on the yoke as far as you can. If the wheel is unresponsive, apply a mending spell to the support structures for the elemental ring surrounding the ship.

As a last-ditch effort, suspend yourself in the netting used to secure cargo in the airship’s hold. The elastic nature of the netting may provide some cushion to the crash—enough, perhaps, to at least preserve an identifiable corpse.

Along with these other methods, we might humbly also suggest a prayer to whatever church you find most comforting in your time of need