When Korranberg Chronicle reporter Kole Naerrin went undercover as a warforged indentured servant in Thrane, his bondage was limited in duration and tempered by that nation’s generally well meaning (if rigid) code of justice. Make no mistake, though: if you fall into bondage in Darguun, your experience will be nothing like Naerrin’s demeaning but relatively painless work-a-day servant’s life.
 
As a slave in Darguun, you will be whipped, starved, and kenneled with beasts. If you are lucky enough to survive, your bruises and the stink of goblin will be set so deep in your fl esh that you may never feel yourself again. The fi rst rule of slavery in Darguun is thus: avoid it at all costs. Some calamities cannot be helped, however, and for those unfortunates fallen to chains under the shadow of the Red House, the Wayfinder Foundation offers these survival tips.

Follow orders. 
Slaves are cheap in Darguun, and the bugbear overseers think nothing of slitting a recalcitrant slave’s throat to save gruel at mealtime. Be especially obedient immediately after capture in a large group, for the overseers will be looking for a head to pike as an example to others.

Know your captors.
The Rhukaan Taash, the Kech Shaarat, and the Kech Volaar value power, revolution, and knowledge respectively. Appeasing your masters is easier if you know their predilections. Beware the Kalkor Marguul; to praise the Lhesh Haruuc in their company is to invite a halberd in your skull.

Improvise. 
You will need weapons to escape, but not even the dimmest goblin runt deep into his rotgut allows a slave to arm itself. The “shusk,” a bugbear canine tooth lashed to a stick, makes an effective dagger, and is readily constructed from the remains of bugbears beheaded for disloyalty. One tale that reached Conclave ears described a monk of the Orlaun monastery near Wyr who fashioned a spiked chain from bugbear teeth, rat sinew, and his ankle shackles. The Foundation highly recommends learning basic weaponcrafting and escape skills (useful for wriggling free from bondage) before journeying to Darguun. 

Keep your head up.
A slave without hope is a slave who will never be free. A slave with his head down is a slave who will never see the key left carelessly on the wagon yoke. A gnome chimney sweep escaped a life chained inside the flue of a Wyvernskull tavern when he saw an ignorant goblin toss an unread scroll of teleport onto the cold embers. Be ready for any opportunity to escape.

If you are a former Darguun slave, contact the nearest House Sivis message station at our expense. The Piton wants your story! Earn gold and support your fellow Wayfinders!

[Piton Ed. note—The Wayfinder Foundation’s newly unveiled Map Perilous shades Darguun as an amber travel zone. This makes the advice in this article all the more relevant as hordes of amateur explorers, treasure hunters, and foolhardy travelers are bound to see the amber shading as an open invitation to visit the Lhesh Haruuc for high tea. Please circulate this article liberally among your acquaintances in the traveling community—the life you save could be a friend’s.]