The increase in demand for shards from the Dragon Below has resulted in more and more Wayfinder members daring the reaches of Khyber on prospecting missions. Since these shards are often found in and around volcanoes and other natural magma flows, we present this guide to not being burned to a cinder.

Mind the ashes first. While the glowing underground river of magma fl owing toward you is certainly alarming, keep in mind that you will be dead before it arrives if you do not protect yourself from the massive clouds of ash produced in an eruption. While it would be best to have a breath mask of some kind, even just putting a damp scarf over your mouth can increase your survival time. If you are in a group that contains a warforged, homunculus, or other nonbreathing creature, rely on them to lead you away from the worst of the ash.

Avoid the magma at all costs. Do NOT rely on standard magical protections against heat or fire. Molten rock can easily overwhelm all but the most powerful protection spells. More than one explorer has thought himself proofed against the magma’s intense heat, only to fi nd his abjurations expired within seconds and his body consumed by fire shortly thereafter.

If you are on the mountain itself, move quickly but carefully down and off it. The side of an erupting volcano is highly unstable and prone to rockslides, in addition to the dangers of aboveground lava flows catching up with you. If you have access to fl ying magic, now is the time to use it.

Once away from the volcano, find the highest ground you can. Lava will fl ow to the lowest point, although keep in mind that fl ows of over 60 feet in height have been recorded. It is much better to fi nd a safe place to wait out the worst of the eruption (which can take days) than to risk flying through the ash-fi lled skies and over molten ground. Be careful if you use an extradimensional space to hide from the lava flow; the duration of the spell might not be suffi cient, dumping you into the lava when it expires.